+++
title = "My favorite movies (Favorites: 1)"
authors = ["lily"]

[extra]
book_tag = "yes"
blurb = "Writing about my favorite movies!"
+++

_This is the 1st post in a series about my favorite media_

Movies!

I love them so much.

Probably my third favorite medium after manga and animation.

You get visual splendor, music and sounds, cinematography, actor minutia, and all the amazing storytelling that you can tell through all of the above and the scriptwriting itself.

I love the movies.

Let's talk about my favorites. I'll limit myself to 10 films

**Oh and all the spoilers for all of these movies. I would hate to spoil some of my favorite films so I'll list them out here**
- Project Hail Mary
- Ocean's Eleven
- Everything Everywhere All At Once
- Spiderverse (Into and Across)
- Primer
- The Prestige
- Tenet
- The Night Is Long Walk On Girl
- Kara no Kyoukai
- Past lives

Please don't spoil yourself reading this blog because I would be so so sad if you did. Most, if not all, of these movies are best enjoyed completely blind.

# Tier 1: My top 5 (unordered)

Unordered because I could not possibly ever rank them.

## Project Hail Mary (2026)
Oh boy what could I say about PHM that I haven't [written about](/project-hail-mary) [already](/bravery).

Let's talk music and visuals since we've already belaboured the point on it's amazing themes and how they make me feel.

The soundtrack by Daniel Pemberton is so much fun to listen to, it carries on his leitmotif style of OST composing that elevates the story it accompanies so much. It's wide and epic and creepy, unlike his other bombastic score later on in this list.

The visuals of Rocky are so amazing and I love them so much. The idea to puppet Rocky and have them be an actual animatronic was so so so good for the movie.

The massive expanse of space is so clearly demonstrated and it's so beautiful. From the shots of Adrian to  shots of the Petrova Line they're all so pretty.

But there's also the ethereal beauty of some of the small human scenes. Things like the God Willing scene + karaoke scene, the funeral scene, and the final scenes of Rocky and Grace on the beach. They're all so beautifully shot and scored and directed and mwah mwah mwah they're so good!

I love this movie!

It's also just so so so funny. For how serious and dramatic this film can be, it's also so funny, which surprised me. From the first scene of Grace crawling like a worm, to the Blip A scene, to "Rocky invades the Project Hail Mary" scenes, they're all just so funny!

Such a great film I could talk about it forever.

## Ocean's Eleven (2001)
The greatest heist movie of all time, what else can I say.

The creation of the Soderbergh shot-in-a-shot direction, the music, the comedy, the sheer _chemistry_ of the cast.

So good so good!

The heist itself is just so well told and so well executed. The absolute rug pull of the heist going off in a way where you could've known it before it happened but surely would never have.

What a great execution on a great story.

## Everything Everywhere All At Once (2022)
This perhaps deserves it's own blog post once I rewatch it.

Actually scratch that, it definitely does. 

I've only watched this movie once. Months after my Taiwanese immigrant dad passed away.

My loving, kind to a fault, just-a-guy-in-a-scary-world dad.

My teacher, my coach, my wall to bounce ideas off of.

My dad.

You can guess where this film hits so hard for me.

I'm also just a Taiwanese-Canadian second generation immigrant, who's queer and had a tenuous relationship with my mom.

YOu can guess where this film hits so hard for me.

I won't spoil and I won't talk any more because I'll save that for the EEAAO blog post that I'll surely write.

But yes, amazing movie. Amazing film.

One of my favorites of all time, even though I've only seen it once.
