+++
title = "Mirrored: A transition timeline (Trans: 5)"
authors = ["lily"]

[extra]
book_tag = "yes"
blurb = "A video and talking about it"
+++

_This is the 5th post in a series about trans experiences ([previous](/misgendering))_

# A transition in mirror photos

[_Staring at a mirror of myself_](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=68D0WjyQ2P0)

<video width="800" height="800" controls>
  <source src="/images/mirrored.mp4" type="video/mp4">
Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

# My timeline

## Beginning (2018-2019)

Things started slowly for me.

I started transitioning in 2019 before I even realized.

The first few photos are from 2018 and 2019, a baby version of myself that had barely started to come out of her shell.

The Lily that had started to transition but hadn't realized it yet.

Yes, the one waving that trans flag in that picture had "not started transitioning" and believed that she wouldn't start transitioning until **2020**

Yes, I was wearing breast forms in a lot of those photos, they were not cheap.

## Ottawa, COVID and hormones (2019-2020)
In 2019 I moved away from home for 8 months to work for the government in Ottawa. Fun stuff.

It was an opportunity to live in a new city and truly live for myself for the first time.

I dressed up, bought clothes, went outside while dressed as a woman for real, and went to support groups.

It was the true beginning of my transition for myself.

Then when I got back to Vancouver, it was COVID-19 time and I bunkered down with my family. Not before coming out to them properly and starting hormones though.

## COVID blossoms (2021-2023)
I spent my COVID burnt out, exhausted from school, and generally often sad.

But it was also when I truly felt like a woman for the first time, had hormones change my brain for the better, and feel truly _happy_ for the first time since I was a little kid.

I blossomed during COVID. I entered in early transition, and left as a fully fledged woman.

It was such a blessing to be able to just stay at home and slowly figure out myself in the safety of my own home.

Truly a blessing.

Included in the video are a bunch of mirror selfies during this period.

## New York City baby! (2023-2026)
Then I moved out for real and set off into the world with my bachelors in hand and a job offer to die for.

It was exciting, it was fun, it was so so so exhausting.

But my years in New York were some of my favorite I've been able to have all my life.

Living with a dispensable income. Living as a woman. Living in a great city.

An amazing few years filled with amazing moments and amazing friends.

A few years filled with depression, suicidal thoughts, and intense anxiety while I figured myself out mentally.

A journey I'm still in the middle of.

So, a small selection of photos selected of various fun moments I had in NYC.