+++
title = "Bravery (Project Hail Mary: 2)"
authors = ["lily"]

[extra]
book_tag = "yes"
blurb = "Writing about how Project Hail Mary makes us feel brave"
+++

_This is the 2nd post in a series about the book/movie Project Hail Mary ([previous](/project-hail-mary))_

Have you seen [Project Hail Mary](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Project_Hail_Mary_(film)) yet?

You should go see it, it's leaving theatres soon!

Anyway, let's talk about a major theme of the movie, the idea of bravery.

# Bravery gene

The first time bravery is mentioned in the film is when Grace talks to Yao about it.

(paraphrasing because I don't have the movie memorized (yet))

Grace: "You guys have a bravery gene that I just don't have"

Yao: "It's not about being brave, you just have to have someone to be brave for"

. . .

Repeatedly this idea of bravery is brought up to Grace.

By Rocky.

By Eva.

By Carl.

By everyone around him.

On his last day on Earth he vehemently denies this.

That he's brave.

That he could do something like Project Hail Mary.

. . .

But he proves that he could do it.

_It's not about being brave, you just have to have someone to be brave for_

# What about me?

I often find myself asking myself the same questions that Grace does.

_Can I do this?_

_Can I survive?_

_Do I have the strength and skill and intelligence necessary to survive this?_

And most importantly

_Am I brave enough?_

Brave enough to withstand the [fires of the building that I live in](/my-death)?

Brave enough to not succumb to the [thousands of cuts I experience](/thousand-cuts)?

_Brave enough to live, as broken as I am?_

What Project Hail Mary proposes is that it's not about me.

It's not a matter of if _I_ am brave enough.

It's a matter of finding a _reason_ to be brave.

A _reason_ to keep going.

A _reason_ to keep fighting.

A _reason_ to hold onto [hope](/project-hail-mary).

# Reasons

It'll take some time to fill out my reasons for being _brave_, but I have some idea of the shape that it might take.

My friends, the ones that I care about and that care about me.

My family, the ones who have seen me through everything.

My loved ones, who hold me close.

. . .

I always hated the idea of _living for someone else_.

Hated the idea of finding _reasons to live_.

Because the reasons to live are obvious: I love life.

I love life so much, even though my brain tries its hardest to kill us.

The reasons to live are always obvious to me: to experience more of the joy and love.

Same with the reasons to die: to be free from the pain.

. . .

I hate the idea of finding _reasons to live._

But I'm happy with the idea of finding _reasons to be brave._

A reason, besides my own selfish desires, to be brave and to be strong and to _keep going._

_Keep going._

I will be brave.

I will keep going.

I will keep going.

I will keep going.

No matter the pain.

I will keep going.

_I will be brave._

Just like Grace.