+++
title = "Music for headmates: 1"
authors = ["lily", "skye", "hollow", "lotus", "leaf", "thyme"]

[extra]
book_tag = "yes"
blurb = "Talking about some headmates and their favorite songs/playlists"
+++

# Lily (she/her)

Hihi, I figured a good way to introduce some of our headmates in more detail would be to share some of their favorite music, since most headmates have pretty distinct tastes and favorite songs.

And we want to share more details about our headmates to our friends/family who read our blog.

So without further ado, I'll start us off I guess.

<iframe data-testid="embed-iframe" style="border-radius:12px" src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/2B3D38o8GaXnZo6DnTyZ2m?utm_source=generator" width="100%" height="152" frameBorder="0" allowfullscreen="" allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" loading="lazy"></iframe>

_Ego Death (feat Steve Vai)_ is one of my favorite songs of all time.

It's technical. It's catchy. It's a fucking banger banger banger banger banger!

I love it so much.

I love Steve's solo. The tremolo goes so fucking hard.

I love the little trumpet solo at the end.

The basslines and drums go so so so hard. Everyone always focuses on the guitars when it comes to Polyphia (for good reason!) but the rhythm section is also _amazing._

An inspiration!

I love it I love it I love it!

I rave about this song to everyone who likes this kind of music.

Polyphia rocks so much and this song deserves more attention than Playing God (which also rocks but I think is overrated)

Anyway I have a whole playlist of my favorite songs, my one hour "musical identity" playlist. It's a fun exercise, make a one hour playlist that summarizes your musical identity.

<iframe data-testid="embed-iframe" style="border-radius:12px" src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/playlist/5fkmmaUvVN94pRhZjTzOvY?utm_source=generator" width="100%" height="352" frameBorder="0" allowfullscreen="" allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" loading="lazy"></iframe>

## About me

So most of y'all already know me quite well, as I was probably fronting when you got to know us.

I'm the anxious one, pretty smart I guess, thoughtful and kind.

I'm pretty cool I guess.

I [overwork](/doing-less), [am always doing my best](/doing-my-best), love [project hail mary](/bravery), am [trans](/misgendering), love my girlfriend, am always [writing and teaching](/woolf-quote), and lots of other things.

Now I also love love love music. But I'm not the biggest music lover in the system.

That honor goes to the one and only...

# Skye! (she/her)

Heyo.

I don't talk much, so Lily will be writing a lot of this.

I don't really like texting, and I don't talk at all.

But I love music.

<iframe data-testid="embed-iframe" style="border-radius:12px" src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/7rcRK4NBHv03IPWwAhhAg9?utm_source=generator" width="100%" height="152" frameBorder="0" allowfullscreen="" allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" loading="lazy"></iframe>

I love driving beats.

I love music that I can walk and vibe to.

There's a specific kind of driving hip-hop/rock beat that is so addicting.

4 on the floor house beats are one of those things.

Anyway here's a playlist I made for my good friend, Raven

_Movement music_

<iframe data-testid="embed-iframe" style="border-radius:12px" src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/playlist/3Ru05lMnsa3aCFKYw7NeKM?utm_source=generator" width="100%" height="152" frameBorder="0" allowfullscreen="" allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" loading="lazy"></iframe>

## About me
Idk what do I say.

I like music. I like walking. 

I'm typically the person that handles walking around and getting us places.

I love cycling.

I want to get into motorcycles.

I want to get into dancing, specifically contemporary dance.

I play music, bass is fun.

I'm generally the creative driver in our system.

Painting is fun, usually Lily and I are the ones painting.

Making robots is fun, again me and Lily, Cedar helps out too. I love [Inertial](https://wiki.nhrl.io/wiki/index.php?title=Inertial) and I'm so proud of her.

I don't talk much, I'm pretty much mute irl.

I text a bit, usually to our girlfriend and Raven.

My music taste is music that's fun to run/bike/walk to.

Our next headmate likes music that makes him angry, it's nice and cathartic for him.

He's a nice guy once you get to know him.

# Hollow (he/him)

Alright let's do this.

I like metal.

Music that's hyper intense, highly technical, and fun to rock out to.

I have a favorite album, so I'll pick out a song from there.

<iframe data-testid="embed-iframe" style="border-radius:12px" src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/5TTASqSSXO62ijSkgxPCLC?utm_source=generator" width="100%" height="152" frameBorder="0" allowfullscreen="" allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" loading="lazy"></iframe>

It's a fucking banger.

What else do you want me to say.

I love the instrumentals, the general idea in metal that it should be a fight between the lead guitars and the vocals.

The bass fucking rocks out in this song.

The drums go hard too.

In case you haven't noticed, the entire system is quite partial to the rhythm section.

Anyway this album makes me _feel._

Lily listens to this to make me come out, though that effect has faded the more we listen to this album.

_Snowlover_ was the original track that brought me out on command.

The entire album rocks.

<iframe data-testid="embed-iframe" style="border-radius:12px" src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/album/1r0jblBmqcxBPZFMwpP1dq?utm_source=generator" width="100%" height="152" frameBorder="0" allowfullscreen="" allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" loading="lazy"></iframe>

I guess I should talk about myself now.

## About me

I'm the resident angry face.

All the repressed anger that Lily feels gets channeled into me.

I yell at people. I confront people. I turn our repressed frustration and anger into making things _fucking happen._

I punch holes in walls, I scream, I lay it out onto people.

I wrote a lot of the [forgiveness](/forgiveness) article.

I'm also generally an emotional conduit within the system.

I can figure out who's feeling what and best communicate.

I share this job with Thyme, who you'll read about later.

I form a lot of our external strength, the hard front that appears whenever we need to confront someone or go through a hard situation.

I work hard with Cedar to get the system through hard times. He keeps me grounded when I front to keep us from doing things that we feel bad about.

He keeps me calm and makes sure my anger gets channeled properly.

I'm also one of the primary trauma holders within the system, and I share a subsystem with one of the other trauma holders, Knight.

Knight is my little sibling and I refuse to let anyone hurt them. I protect them with my everything. I refuse to let anyone hurt them any more than they've already been hurt. Even if that hurt comes from Lily or any other member of the system.

Anyway that's me. Angry, strong front, trauma holder, emotional conduit.

Who's up next?

# Lotus (she/her), Leaf (they/them/fae/faer), and Thyme (she/her)

**Lotus:** Hi!

**Thyme:** Hello~ 

**Thyme:** We share similar music tastes so Lily figured we could just go together~

**Thyme:** We like calm, ethereal, peaceful music.

<iframe data-testid="embed-iframe" style="border-radius:12px" src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/2bqMBbSO4ZujPiSzY1t6CI?utm_source=generator" width="100%" height="152" frameBorder="0" allowfullscreen="" allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" loading="lazy"></iframe>

**Thyme:** We love this album so much~

**Lotus:** It's so calm and peaceful! It makes us feel so safe and calm!

<iframe data-testid="embed-iframe" style="border-radius:12px" src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/album/6Yv1yvepxwzXexhcz8KIeu?utm_source=generator" width="100%" height="152" frameBorder="0" allowfullscreen="" allow="autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" loading="lazy"></iframe>

## About me! (Lotus)
Hi!

I'm a child!

Lily likes to call me a child version of her! 

I'm an inner child she says? I don't really get it but I like that I get to exist :D

I like sharkies! They're so soft n comfy n cute.

I like Willow! She's really nice.

I like rocking n laughing and being cute.

Lily is a bit stinky sometimes and kicks me out of the front to talk and I get my revenge by stealing her chair!

Chair thief! That's me :)

**Cedar:** The chair thing refers to our [headspace](/headspace)

Bweeeeeeee~

## About me~ (Thyme)

hiiiii~

im thyme~

im generally calm and peaceful.

im also very sleepy a lot of the time

i have a pretty good handle on how everyone in the system is feeling

me and hollow share that job

we keep an eye on everyone and tell cedar when someone isnt feeling well

cedar usually gets lilys attention and we go from there

anyway yes calm and eepy thats me~

## About Leaf

**Lotus:** Leaf is cute! Fae doesn't talk or really communicate much, but they're cute!

**Cedar:** Leaf is a trauma holder and holds onto a lot of our difficult or negative experiences. Fae struggles a lot and is often in a lot of emotional pain. We all try our best to soothe faer and help faer through whatever fae is experiencing

**Lily:** Thank you Leaf, for everything that you do for us

