+++
title = "Meditation, mindfulness, and the Brain Zoo"
authors = ["lily"]

[extra]
book_tag = "yes"
blurb = "Writing about my first introduction to meditation/mindfulness, and my current interpretation"
+++

# The Brain Zoo - exurb1a

<div style="position: relative; width: 100%; padding-bottom: 56.25%">
<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/X3rl5O_92Co" 
        title="The Brain Zoo - exurb1a" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen
        allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" 
        style="position: absolute; width: 100%; height: 100%;">
</iframe>
</div>

# Thoughts
This was my introduction to the ideas of meditation and mindfulness. It was pretty instrumental (_haha get it_) in getting me to start practicing mindfulness in a way that works for me.

It's not about sitting cross-legged with an incense stick up your ass, it's about observing your mind's thoughts and not letting it take over.

## ACT lens
It lines up well with ACT's concepts of mindfulness, namely not letting yourself get confused and think that you're the thoughts (the band) instead of the audience.

You are the observing self, not the thinking self.

## IFS lens
Thinking about this video now makes me think about IFS and the parts that are talking in the back of my mind, chattering away with different thoughts and ideas and things I should do, good or bad.

The brain zoo can be thought of as the different parts, though this is where ACT and IFS diverge. IFS posits that one should try to listen to and help soothe the parts that are maladaptive or lashing out, while ACT posits that one should let the negative/maladaptive thoughts pass through you.

I don't think either lens really captures the full picture that I'm looking for when it comes to mindfulness and meditation. 

So what about a new lens, one of plurality?

## Plurality lens
Different headmates seated around the [headspace table](/headspace), all chattering away with their own thoughts and opinions on what we should be doing.

Some are loud, some are very quiet, some don't speak, others are full of thoughts.

Plurality posits that _all headmates should be respected and be allowed to speak their thoughts._

I think the approach here is to allow them all to speak their thoughts, but gently remind those who are hurting that they shouldn't let their hurt affect the system overall.

Respect for all headmates and compassionate hand for those who are hurting.

Maladaptive thoughts come from maladaptive headmates who are hurt and need time to heal. 

Act in a way that aligns with the goals of the system overall.

The act of mindfulness and meditation is then about sitting in that headspace and listening in on how everyone's doing. Letting others talk through your voice.

Meditation is then the process of letting your mind first empty by leaving the front, entering into headspace, then listening to what others have to say or letting others front to say what they want directly.

Meditation becomes a _channel_ to letting those thoughts _express_ themselves rather than being passed through and released.

Does this work? Is this a reasonable framework? Is this just IFS with a fresh layer of paint?

Dunno.

[I should write about this more](/plurality-as-a-modality)